Good afternoon, my name is Oksana Samarina, I am the head of the Kovacheng department at the Moscow Business School.
So, I would like to say a few words about myself.
I have been working in the field of training and development of staff for many years.
I was engaged in training, individual consulting, everything related to training staff, assessment.
And now I have switched to coaching.
Coaching is probably a well-known word for many, but I would like to clarify it a little.
Today, at our lecture, I would like to discuss such blocks as what coaching is, what method is it, how we can apply it in our practice,
what is coach management, how to implement it at our enterprise, and what benefits we will get in this regard.
Next, I would like to discuss such a topic as coaching in the implementation of organizational changes.
And move on to the topic of how to plan and set goals that will follow organizational changes.
And also a very important point is how to conduct coaching.
Coaching of the subordinate and coaching of the manager.
These are the main blocks that we will study today.
Coaching
So, the first one. What is coaching?
The word is quite well-known.
Surely, many have heard about it and even, perhaps, tried it somehow.
But nevertheless, what is it?
In fact, there is no definition of coaching.
Each author tries to do it in his own way.
Each author tries to introduce something of his own into the definition of this name.
Nevertheless, each of those who tries to do it agrees on one thing.
Namely, coaching is a method that helps to determine and achieve goals in the best way.
This is a method that focuses on the result, on getting this result and on striving for the goal.
This is the most important thing.
There are also many definitions that are quite cumbersome, which may not be quite understandable.
But nevertheless, I would like to emphasize one thing.
This is a method of determining and achieving goals.
And with minimal effort to achieve the maximum results.
And now I would like to talk to you about how to build a relationship in coaching.
How to build a relationship between a coach and a nurse?
After all, it is really very important, in fact, if a coach has confidence that every person has a huge potential.
That every person is a creator and he already has the maximum opportunities.
This is a very important coach's confidence.
Without this confidence, you probably should not even do coaching.
And then.
A very important point is mutual trust between the coach and his nurse.
Because if there is no mutual understanding, if there is no trust between these two people, then the coaching process will not work.
It will be anything but coaching.
Moreover, it is very important that if the coach and his nurse interact, there should be mutual trust between them.
This is necessary.
And another very important point.
After all, coaching is not a direct approach.
This is a rather soft style.
And for the manager, for the coach, maybe not everyone will like it.
Rather, it is a very important and valuable quality of a coach, which is external in the organization.
Or it is a coach who works inside the company and supports this style.
The style of non-directivity.
And another very important point is that in coaching, a professional coach does not give advice.
He guides and asks questions.
But in no case is he an expert.
There is such a direction as expert coaching, which we will talk about in the future.
But nevertheless, I would like to emphasize once again that a coach is not the one who gives advice.
This is not the one who gives instructions.
This is the one who listens to you and asks special questions in order to clarify the goal that is important for you.
To outline certain steps and ways to achieve this goal.
Next, I would like to point out that in coaching we do not focus on problems.
We are talking about tasks.
This is a big and fundamental difference.
Because coaching is aimed at the action now, at the action in the future.
And in no case at how it was in the past.
Remember, we live now and we think about how we will achieve our goals in the future.
Therefore, a very important point is that the focus is on the present and the focus is on the future.
And here it is very important for us that we do not think about what mistakes we made before.
We forget what we did or did not do before.
The focus is on the goal and the focus is on what we can do to improve our activity and to achieve the goal that we strive for.
It happens very often that the nanny says,
I don't want to be late for work anymore.
I don't want to watch my subordinates not doing their job anymore.
And when you ask the question, what do you want?
Then the answer is again, I don't want my subordinates to behave this way.
Okay, what do you want?
And then the coaching begins, when the manager says, I want them to come on time.
This is the focus on the task.
We focus on the problem, on what I don't want.
And we focus our attention on the task.
What do I want?
What do I want to achieve?
What task do I want to solve?
And what goal do I want to achieve?
Another very important principle of coaching is confidentiality.
If the coach is working with his client,
then there must be a 100% guarantee that all the information that the coach received from his client,
from his subordinate, will remain between them.
Unless it was discussed in advance that any parts of the information provided to the coach can be disclosed to the client.
Otherwise, there is no way.
That is, our rule is this, compliance with absolute and complete confidentiality.
Only in these conditions can our client, our subordinate, be absolutely sure that he can tell us everything he wants.
And he can be absolutely calm that it will remain between him and the coach.
This is, you know, similar to the relationship of friends.
Because when I trust a friend with some important information,
I want to be sure that this information will remain between us and that no one else will find out about it.
That is why I can trust him.
Our task is to become the same friends at this moment for our subordinate,
so that he opens up and has the opportunity to trust us completely.
And he was absolutely sure that absolute confidentiality was guaranteed to him.
So, we, professional coaches, use the concept of basic coaching in our work.
What is it?
We are deeply confident that every person has a very great potential.
So great that sometimes it is even difficult to realize what we can and what we can.
But nevertheless, what prevents us?
These are obstacles.
And not so much external obstacles, but rather internal ones.
This is some kind of uncertainty, this is fear to act.
It is possible, on the contrary, to like the aspiration, to make an impression,
which at a certain moment can block our abilities.
Remember when fear blocked your knowledge at the same exam or at the same test?
Remember when you wanted to make some great impression, and suddenly it didn't work out?
It's just that your potential was lower than usual due to the fact that you felt internal obstacles.
So, the goal of coaching is to minimize these obstacles and maximize potential.
To increase potential by reducing obstacles, both internal and external.
What do we mean when we say external obstacles?
External obstacles can be elementary, at work, if so.
I can't move up the career ladder because I don't have an education or something else.
But all these issues are quite solvable and all these obstacles can be overcome.
And a coach has the right to instill this confidence in his subordinate.
Yes, you can overcome it.
Yes, it is such an obstacle that may seem difficult now, but in the future you will definitely overcome it.
And now I would like to draw our attention to the slide on which we could see the coaching results.
Let's take a look at it.
So, the companies that ordered coaching for their managers noted improvements in performance,
in quality, strengthening of the organization, in customer service,
reduction of customer complaints, lack of current managers,
reduction of costs and overall profitability.
You can continue to read this slide.
And we move on to the next material.
So, what are the goals of coaching?
We have already discussed what coaching is and what are its goals.
The goal of coaching in a company, in business processes, is, first of all, to achieve the result.
To achieve the goal, the one that was initially stated.
It is very important for us to understand that there are goals, there are goals for goals,
and in each goal there are certain small goals that we must pass in order to get to the desired state.
There is a desired state and there is a starting state from which we want to move to the desired state.
The goal of coaching is to help a person move from where he is now to where he wants to be.
The same is true for a company.
A company that wants to move to a new high-quality state,
that wants to make certain changes,
invites a coach to stimulate these changes,
to achieve the result that it would like.
And so we can summarize.
A coach does not give advice.
A coach will not tell you what, how and in what order to do it.
A coach is not the person who will come to your company,
do everything himself and you will only have to reap the fruits.
Rather, not like that.
Let's remember Socrates.
He said that he was a money-grubbing grandmother of knowledge.
I can help you to learn, but I cannot force you to do it.
The same is true here.
Coaching is very close to the expression of Socrates.
A coach can contribute to the education and development,
but he cannot do this development and education for you.
He can stimulate you, he can cheer you up,
he can motivate you,
he can develop a plan and control of all these actions with you.
But the actions will be for you.
For the person who turned to the coach
or for the company that turned to the coach to make changes.
Let's talk about the development in coaching.
In fact, the goal of coaching is the resultiveness of achieving the goal.
And yet, what else is going on?
Coaching allows you to develop awareness, responsibility and self-confidence.
Let's imagine,
only what we are aware of, we can control.
Only what we take responsibility for is our decision.
This is the decision that we have made for ourselves and that we are obliged to fulfill.
It often happens that the head assigns certain tasks to his subordinates,
and he ignores them.
Why? Why doesn't he take responsibility for himself?
And he can take responsibility only when he is internally agreeable with this decision,
when he himself wants to fulfill it,
and then he will do it in the best way.
And this is one of the tasks of coaching.
To make a person take responsibility for the task assigned to him
and to fulfill it in the best way.
Another important point that we also talked about is the development of self-confidence.
Only a person who is confident in himself is capable of great achievements.
A person who realizes his resources,
who realizes his goals,
who takes responsibility for his achievements,
is really a person who can achieve his goals
and who is stimulated and inspired by these goals
and makes this path to the goal attractive.
This is also motivation.
That's why I would like to stop at the moment
what is coaching and who is a coach?
And how is it different from the rest?
Coaching is a method that came to us from sports,
from sports training.
In English, it means coaching.
It is individual coaching.
Coaching is to achieve a certain result.
A coach can be called a coach,
but this concept is much broader.
And that's why the word coaching is not translated into Russian.
In our Russian language, we have not yet come up with a term
that could replace the word coaching.
Coaching is not mentorship.
It is not mentorship.
It is not coaching.
It is exactly coaching.
This is the coaching that we have just discussed.
This is a method that allows you to determine and achieve goals.
It is a coach who stimulates you to achieve these goals.
It is a coach who inspires you to achieve these goals.
But he does not give advice.
If it is an external coach,
if it is an internal coach who works with the manager.
We will also talk about the topic
when a coach is a manager
and how he can build this coaching interaction.
So, coach management.
Our next topic.
Let's think about how it differs from just management.
Management is management.
And what is coach management?
First of all, the basis of coach management is
that questions gradually come to replace the directives.
Or it is a combination of directions with additional questions.
When a manager gives a task to a subordinate,
one of his tasks is to check
how true his subordinate understood this task.
How much resources he has now
in order to complete this task.
And what can help this subordinate
to approach this task even more responsibly,
with even more full return.
So, coach management is based on the fact
that more and more questions should come to replace the directions.
And we mostly ask open questions in coaching.
You know the difference between open and closed questions.
Open questions are those
that are unlikely to be answered unambiguously.
Open questions stimulate.
Open questions encourage to give a detailed and full answer.
They stimulate us to think and be active.
So, let's summarize.
What does a coach do?
First of all, he gives a task to his subordinate
and asks questions.
How clear is the task?
Does the subordinate have all the resources
and necessary funds to complete this task?
How does the subordinate plan to complete this task?
And what is the deadline?
Of course, there should be good and wonderful interaction
and trust between the coach and his subordinate.
Otherwise, the coach will not get a sincere answer from the subordinate.
If there is trust in the relationship
between the coach and the subordinate,
then by giving the task to the subordinate
and asking him about the results
and how much it is feasible for him,
the coach can get the following answer.
I don't have the resources now.
I don't quite understand this task.
If the coach can clarify his task,
if he can give the opportunity to this person
to find time to complete the task,
then most likely the task will be successful.
I want to emphasize once again
that only in the relationship of trust
between the coach and his subordinate
it is possible that this process will go smoothly
and the goal will be more effective.
The task of any coach, including the coach,
is to maintain control,
that is, to control how the task is performed,
to highlight certain points
after which the subordinate should receive feedback
and talk about the progress in this project.
It is perfectly clear that the coach
should perform his functions,
issue orders,
use questions and control the activity.
These are the necessary conditions.
So, the coach manager should have an adequate idea
whether his subordinate is ready for the coaching.
If we are talking about the coaching,
we will see that there are newbies
who come to our organization
and who most likely need to receive instructions.
They want to be told and shown what to do.
And most likely for such people
it is necessary to have a coach.
And this is a very important point.
The coach should be able to give the necessary feedback
and to tell what needs to be done.
And most likely for such people
coaching is not quite appropriate.
For them, a tool such as instructions,
explanations and mentorship will be more suitable.
It will be very good if a person has a mentor
who will take him to his position step by step,
tell him and show him what to do
in the conditions of this organization.
And then his work will be successful.
There are other types of employees.
For example, an employee who is already a specialist.
He already knows the working conditions well enough,
he already does a lot on his own,
he is already motivated enough to work,
and he can already apply coaching methods.
In order to specify what he can do even better,
how he can improve his activity.
And here the task of the manager is to control
and direct this employee
in order for him to reach a new level of his development.
Develop in this organization,
realizing his resources, his advantages,
and working on his disadvantages.
And the third category of employees
is the employees who are already experienced.
These are, so to speak, old-timers
who have been working in this organization for a long time,
and they are probably already occupying
high positions.
They understand and know the whole structure of the organization.
Coaching of setting goals will be relevant for them.
After all, it is from how well the goal is set
and how consciously and planned the goal is,
that success depends.
And you know, I just had this idea.
Ivan Tsarevich is walking in the desert.
He is walking for a long time,
he is tired, he wants to drink.
And suddenly he sees a lake in the distance.
He sees an oasis.
He wants to go there.
He wants to drink water.
He finally found this water,
the desolate desert.
He approaches the lake and suddenly sees
that the Gorynych snake is located somewhere near the trees.
Naturally, Ivan Tsarevich grabs the saber
and begins to fight with the Gorynych snake.
He cuts off one head,
another grows in its place.
And so Ivan Tsarevich and the Gorynych snake fought for a long time.
Then they both got tired.
They sat down.
And then the Gorynych snake says,
Ivan, what did you want?
Ivan says, to drink water.
Then the Gorynych snake says,
well, you should have drunk.
Why did you come to me?
Thus, I want to confirm once again
that the goal should be very clear.
After all, if the goal of our Ivan Tsarevich
was to drink water,
then first of all he would have done exactly this.
No other goal would have knocked him down.
He would not think about anything else now.
For our leaders,
especially in the conditions of change in the company,
it is very important to have a clear goal,
a clear plan of achievement,
and not to be distracted by goals that are less important now
or goals that are less significant now.
So, a very important point is
setting a goal,
but we will come back to this later.
And we move on to the topic of coaching organizational changes.
Many managers
have adopted such a sentence by Tom Peters
that you need to change or die.
Why is this so important now?
The pace of the company's growth,
the pace of interaction,
the pace of competition is increasing,
increasing, increasing.
And now it is very important for companies
not only to develop,
but to have time to compete.
To compete with their competitors,
to compete for clients.
It is perfectly clear that there are more and more goods,
and it is not a secret that they are becoming more and more similar to each other.
And companies need to stand out in some way.
To show that they are the leaders.
That they have the best product.
That they are worthy of being noticed by clients.
Of course, the pace of growth is very high.
The pace of competition is high,
but so are the rates.
And if we talk about the fact that a long-term manager
should anticipate,
a long-term manager should think about what will happen tomorrow.
Not even today, not yesterday.
But about how to make it tomorrow.
What should I do
to not only flourish now,
but also tomorrow,
and in the future, and in a year, and in 10 years.
And this is quite important for us now.
Look at how fast the transmission of messages has increased.
Because if earlier,
literally 50 years ago,
people could not even think that they would communicate on mobile phones.
To communicate, people had to either overcome great distances,
or use a telegraph, or intercity communication,
or a phone, which was probably not yet everywhere.
What is happening now?
Sometimes the manager sits in his office,
takes a mobile phone and calls his subordinate.
He may not even call him, but just call him.
Indeed, the pace, even the transmission of messages,
and communication between people has accelerated.
If we talk about communication,
it is becoming more and more electronic.
A large number of messages are sent by e-mail,
by SMS.
There is less personal communication.
And all this tells us that the pace is increasing.
That the information that is important now
should be transmitted by e-mail.
That changes should happen in a lightning speed.
Only then will we be able to participate in this race.
Yes, life is such that we must be here in time.
And it is the coaching methods that can help
to develop successfully.
And to develop not only now, but also in the future.
And it is perfectly clear that changes
are not only about the speed of communication,
but also about the speed of communication.
And it is perfectly clear that changes in a company
can have a completely different nature.
It can be minor changes,
which concern one department, for example.
It can be changes in the entire company structure.
It can be changes in the management system.
Changes in the managers and top staff.
Whatever they are,
nevertheless, their implementation
is associated with certain difficulties.
Their implementation must be done quickly and effectively.
No one will want to make changes now
just for the sake of changes.
These changes are ripe,
these changes are necessary.
And they can affect both a single person
in the company,
and the entire company, the entire structure in general.
And we will talk about this too.
The question is often raised by managers.
How to manage all this?
Will the methods I used before
work in the current situation?
What can I do to manage
even more effectively?
And these are really coaching questions.
These are questions about how to act
and how to do it quickly.
In particular, this question is often asked.
How can I restructure my activities
so that my company succeeds?
What can I do as a manager
to make something change for the better
in my department?
But these questions are most likely
coming from the managers.
In rare cases, the manager himself
thinks about how to improve something
at the linear level.
Nevertheless, when the coach works
even with the linear staff,
very interesting topics arise.
One of the managers asked to conduct
a coaching session for the linear staff.
He said,
There are only four women working
and they are doing their job.
Talk to them.
I would like them to work better.
When we talked to them,
when we found out what they do,
what they want to do
and what they could do better,
it turned out that these are creative enough personalities.
These are the people who are interested in this company.
These are the people who know
how to improve the interaction in their department
and want to improve the interaction with other departments.
When the manager received the report
about our work, he was surprised.
He said,
Are these four women really capable
and ready to improve something?
We are coming back to the point
that we should believe
that our employees have a great potential.
That these employees can work better.
That these employees are ready for more.
We should give them time.
We should listen to them.
Maybe we should recommend something.
Maybe we should ask for coaching.
What would you like to change in your work?
What do you need to work more effectively?
What would you like to get from your work in the future?
These are quite simple questions,
but they take people to a completely different level of thinking.
These are questions that a person does not ask himself every day.
As a rule, people ask themselves
what they want to do.
What do you want to do?
As a rule, people who work in an organization,
if we are not talking about top management,
they are in a daily race.
They have a certain task,
they have a certain rhythm,
they are constantly in it.
And very rarely one of them thinks,
what can I improve here?
What can I do better, more effectively and faster?
We were considering a scheme
that told us that the indicators
of the organization's efficiency
really improve when we provide coaching.
It seems like a magical improvement,
but nevertheless,
the simplicity of these questions is powerful.
Try to answer this question.
How can you improve your activity?
What can you do faster,
better or more effectively?
Do you have any suggestions
that you would like to introduce
to the work of your group,
your organization,
in order to improve the activity
of the whole organization?
What do you need
to be more successful in this organization?
I assure you,
you will get very interesting answers.
At least, think about it.
It is really important.
So, the topic we are going to discuss
is organizational changes.
And if we define
what organizational changes are,
it is a process of transition
of the system to a new quality state.
To a new quality state.
And this state is connected
with the ideas of where to develop,
what to move to,
and what is the goal of these changes.
So, organizational changes
are going to a new level.
And to a new level with the original request.
If we talk about the development
of the sales department,
the changes in the sales department
can influence the productivity
and profitability.
The quality is expressed in the fact
that people will work more,
and the company will get more profit.
Of course, we need to work on it.
It is unlikely that we want
this department to work better
and it will work better.
No, we need to work on it.
And we need to do it
so that our employees feel more strength,
more confidence that they can do it.
And we, as managers, can do it.
We can inspire these employees
to work with more dedication,
with more interest,
and not only material.
And if we talk about the goals of these changes,
then it is, first of all,
achieving success.
It is improving the organization
and it is a good indicator.
But still, if we talk about the changes,
they are very connected with the problems.
Because if we introduce something new
in the organization,
we usually face resistance
from the employees.
Whatever these employees are,
but as a rule, any change,
any innovation can face an obstacle,
resistance from the employees.
And these problems need to be solved again.
So, if we think about
what is the process of organizational changes,
I would like to draw your attention to the slide.
Please, look at the slide.
Here we see that any changes
that we plan to introduce
occur together with the solution.
Yes, there are changes,
then the solution of these changes,
but nevertheless, we usually face problems.
And to solve these problems,
we plan some changes again.
And so on, to infinity.
That is, by introducing these changes,
we not only achieve success,
but also a side effect.
There are difficulties that we face
and that need to be solved.
Thus, we can say that the process
of organizational changes
is not paradoxically unchanged.
That only by constantly changing something
in the company,
constantly maintaining this rhythm
Companies that operate in the old way
are usually not successful.
Our task is to ensure
continuity of this process.
To do everything necessary
to make changes happen.
And to make these changes,
which will even be accompanied by difficulties,
to be overcome.
A simple example.
In one of the companies,
CRM system was introduced.
Of course, this is a change in the company.
This is a new introduction.
What do you think the employees' reaction was?
More than half refused to work with this system.
They even, one might say,
sabotaged this system.
So, we had to think again.
What to do to make our employees
want to use this system?
To make them use it successfully?
Here is a new task.
What can we do to make them
start using it?
And to make it fast,
effective and easy?
It took some time,
and all employees switched to CRM system.
But the HR department had to try.
They had to come up with motivation factors,
and the CEO had to try
to implement these changes.
It also cost some money.
This is a small illustration
that changes should be continuous.
We are introducing something new in our company.
Even if we are successful now,
we have to think about the future.
We have to think about tomorrow.
What else should we do tomorrow
to make our company successful?
What can I do personally?
How can I influence my employees?
What questions can I ask them?
How can I motivate them
to move in a single mode?
So that each employee knows their job
and does it well.
How to promote employees?
How to punish them?
This is the CEO's task.
I'd like to move on to the topic
of changing the coaching formula.
We've talked about changes in the company.
If we take the coaching position,
we can consider such factors.
There is a usual action,
an old-fashioned action,
the way we always work.
People are creatures
that get used to this status quo.
They did it yesterday,
they do it today,
and they want to do it tomorrow.
This is quite strong.
This is what makes them resist the change.
But what can we do in coaching
to make this aspiration
to change and improvement exist?
One of such elements is
dissatisfaction with the current situation.
This is one of the key elements.
If you are satisfied with everything,
if your company is doing great
and you don't want to change anything,
changes will happen
as they say, with a creak.
These changes will be less effective
than we'd like,
and maybe not necessary.
The basic thing we should say
is dissatisfaction with the current situation.
Next,
it's understanding how important
this change is and what it will lead to.
If we understand that
the same service system
will make it easier
to track the base,
to communicate with clients,
to simplify the turnover system,
these are all advantages.
Tell your employees about these advantages.
Explain to them why it's so important.
This is the second element.
Understanding the goal,
what we are making these changes for.
The third element is a clear action plan.
These are planned steps
to achieve the goal.
What should we do?
What steps should we take
to reach the goal?
Of course,
the sum of these three elements,
dissatisfaction with the current situation,
a clear goal and a plan,
these three elements should be more important.
They should be stronger
than the desire to be a status quo
and to act in the old way.
This is a good tool for the manager
to implement these tools of change,
to act more actively
and to understand what we are doing.
As we said,
only what is realized,
only what a person really wants to do,
he will do.
If this is not the case,
we can only stimulate this person to achieve.
But we cannot force him.
You know, there is an expression,
you can bring a horse to the pond,
but it is impossible to force it to drink.
So,
we should be guided by this formula of change.
I will repeat it again.
Dissatisfaction with the current situation,
a clear goal and a plan.
These are the things we need to implement changes.
Now we will talk about the coaching steps
in organizational changes.
The first thing to say
is that we should be prepared for the diagnosis.
Before implementing something new in the organization,
including coaching,
we should understand
how ready the organization is for it,
what organizational changes are planned to be implemented,
and how ready the employees are for coach management.
The second point of this program
is coaching for determining goals.
We have already discussed this point,
but now we will discuss it in more detail.
The third point is planning.
Coaching at the planning stage.
And the fourth stage is feedback.
Feedback to both the supervisor
and the supervisor
in the sense that
the supervisor is not the only one
who is responsible for the changes.
The coach is also responsible for the changes.
The supervisor is responsible for the changes.
These are the four basic blocks
that we will regulate in the system
that needs to be changed.
The company itself
should determine
what changes are needed,
what changes are needed now,
and accordingly invite the coach,
who will be able to determine
the important points
that concern coaching.
I would like to draw your attention
to the next slide,
where we will see how to apply coaching
at the analysis stage.
At this stage, the coach asks a number of questions.
These may be questions like
What is the sphere of the organization's activity
or the team's division
or the committee's needs
in the changes above all?
Why are the changes in this area so important?
How will the changes in the selected sphere
affect the other areas of the company's activity?
Why are these changes needed now?
Are the selected structures ready for the changes?
What consequences can there be
due to the implementation of these changes?
It is natural that there are a lot of questions
that should be asked at the diagnostic stage.
But first of all,
the supervisor, who wishes to implement
the changes,
should answer these questions.
If we consider an example
from a trading company,
where the supervisor invited a coach
to implement the changes in his company,
what can be done better?
He already had experience
in implementing changes,
both successful and not so successful,
and at this stage he decided
to use the help and support of the coach.
What did we do at this stage?
We asked him questions.
Which sphere of the company's activity
should be changed first?
Perhaps, by changing something
in this system of the organization,
you can influence the change.
He mentioned several categories
that need to be changed in his company.
In particular,
it was the qualification of the staff
who worked in the sales department.
His qualification of these employees
did not quite suit him.
And, accordingly,
it was one of the main tasks
that he wanted to solve.
But he had no idea
how to do it.
Of course, there were tasks
that were in line with this.
It was the increase of motivation
of the employees and the achievement
of new goals.
But first of all,
what could he do
to make the processes
in this department more effective?
What could he do
to make the processes
in this department more effective?
So that the employees
could better cope with their duties.
Here, of course,
we came to the conclusion
that instead of the new employees
who would naturally be associated
with new costs,
we should work with those
who are already there.
We should work with those people
who are already in the department.
We should stimulate them to work.
Some of these employees
needed to be trained.
For some of them,
we should have given instructions
as for new employees.
For some of them,
we should have stimulated them
by changing their motivation.
As a result, the head came to the conclusion
that the motivation for these employees
should be varied.
And together we have chosen
such a system of motivation
that was really adequate
at this stage of development.
Which could really stimulate
these employees to work better.
From the conversation of the employees
I can say that the new employees
are not satisfied with the new instructions.
The instructions that were sent down
were not always acceptable.
But as you understand,
quite often the managers
do not ask how much you like it.
They send instructions
and then face difficulties.
And the coaching approach
helps to find the compromise
when the manager is satisfied
with the way the employees work
and with their motivation.
And the employees are satisfied
with the system that was built.
In particular,
we conducted team coaching
where these employees
conducted some kind of brainstorming
in the presence of their manager.
The employees themselves determined
what their motivation would be.
What would they like to have?
How would they like to work?
And what motivation would they like to have?
It's a multi-stage process.
And it was quite successful.
The manager and the employees
were satisfied.
It's one of those moments
when everyone wins.
The manager and the employees.
But the organization also wins.
The organization gets more profit.
It gets loyal employees.
It gets employees
who are ready to work here.
Employees who won't leave the company.
They created their own motivation.
It all came from them.
These are the employees
who will stay in the organization.
Because besides the material factors
there are also non-material factors.
The employees felt more free here.
They felt respected.
They were considered.
And it's good enough.
Because directives don't always work.
Directives nowadays
can't be as effective
as they were a few years ago.
That's why coaching can help.
It's really easy.
You ask questions, get answers
and change your actions.
But that's what you should strive for.
It's the non-directive approach
that makes the shift from the directive
to the place of instructions.
Questions.
Questions that can stimulate
both the leaders, employees and the organization.
Next.
I'd like to move on to the topic of goals.
The goal in the organization.
The goal set by the leader.
The goal that the whole team will strive for.
So, if we talk about
the goal set by the leader
the first question to ask is
what do you want to achieve?
What result do you want to achieve?
These are questions that
are constantly in the leader's head.
How do I achieve a certain goal?
How do I reach a new level of profitability?
How do I expand my influence?
How do I take a bigger share in the market?
All of this is really important.
But what happens next?
Usually, everyone acts
based on their past experience.
Last year I did this and that.
I'll do it now.
But the actions I did last year
will lead to the same success.
Maybe they will, maybe they won't.
So, you need to define your goal clearly.
Remember how it was with Ivan Tsarevich
and Zmei Gorynych.
The clear goal should be so clear
so clear that there is no thought
that you can strive for something else.
We achieve what we pay more attention to.
So, in coaching there is a concept
called the final result format.
Of course, you are familiar with the basic blocks
of this format.
I'll give you a brief description.
The first thing you need in the final result format
as a method of building goals
is to formulate this goal positively.
What is positive?
If we talk about the goal of improvement
of a department or a company
then this goal is
a new market
or a goal of achieving new effects
or a new product market.
But this is not a goal
that we say
we don't want to lag behind anymore
we don't want to be lazy anymore
we don't want to be late anymore.
This is not a goal.
This is more like a complaint
that we won't work with.
The goal here is
what we want.
And the goal is stated in the terms of the future.
This is a goal that is
a little bit ahead.
This is a goal that we will reach.
So, in short
the goal is to bring the company to a new level.
The goal is to increase the income.
The goal is to bring a new product.
These are goals that are formulated positively.
The second point
that is a component of the final result
is that it is important
that this goal is within your control.
So that the goal you set
you can achieve it.
So that its achievement depends on you
as a leader.
Because if we set a goal
that for some reason
we can't control now
then its probability of achieving it is really small.
A leader, when setting a certain goal
must mean
what he can control.
And in no case choose goals
that are not under his control.
If we talk about middle managers
not everyone can be controlled by the resources of the organization.
Not everyone can sign certain documents.
Not every leader can be
financed.
So if we set a certain goal
then we need to think about
whether it is within my control
or within the control of my employees.
And they have access to all the necessary resources.
And it is very important here
even if this goal is not under your control
think about how you can
transfer what is not under your control
to the control zone.
Let's say
if at this moment
you don't have access to certain documents
that are necessary for changes
what can you do to get access to them?
What specific steps should be taken
to get these documents
or this information?
So the second very important point
is the goal within my control
at least 50%.
If this is not the case
then we won't be able to work
within the control zone.
Next, probably everyone knows
the formula SMART.
We won't dwell on it in detail
we will just comment on it.
SMART is the ability to set smart goals
that are specific enough
that are measurable
that are achievable
and that are determined in time.
This is the SMART that you most likely use.
And it is great that it is so.
I would like to move on
to the next stage of the final result format.
It is environmentalism.
What is environmentalism?
We are all used to think that ecology is nature
ecology is the environment
but what do we mean by this
when we use the term environmentalism?
Environmentalism means
that the result of achieving this goal
will be positive for us.
That despite the fact
that there may be some side effects
some problems with changes
we will still achieve
some positive changes
that will help us
to neutralize these small problems.
Ecology is a very important factor.
Many companies strive for changes
and implement these changes
and only then start thinking
about how it all affected them.
There is one example of a company
that had several branches
scattered around the Moscow region.
The head office was in Moscow
and several branches in the Moscow region.
The head office decided
that the most important thing for us
is to implement the assessment system
for all employees.
And this has started to be actively implemented.
The head office saw a positive effect
and decided that it was necessary
to implement the same changes
in all branches in the Moscow region
to implement this assessment system.
But the only thing that no one thought about
was whether the implementation
of the assessment system in the branches
would bring the same positive effect.
Did they take into account
that completely different people work there?
That the level of development of these branches
may not correspond to the level
of development of the Moscow office?
Nevertheless, these changes were made.
This assessment system began to be implemented
and implemented and implemented.
Colossal funds were spent.
What is the result?
Two of these branches in the Moscow region
were closed
because people working there
were not ready for this.
Let's think about
how environmentally friendly
this change was for the company.
Did this company acquire something
that could be harmful to the organization?
Before implementing changes,
before setting this goal for yourself,
it is necessary to think very clearly
about environmental friendliness.
Will something happen that I don't want?
Will something happen
that could interfere with the organization?
Providing these factors,
we really win.
There are many other ways
to make the same change.
It is worth thinking about these,
about this law of environmental friendliness.
These are the components
of the final result format.
I will repeat them again briefly.
The final result format
is based on the following principles.
The goal must be formulated positively.
The goal must be in the zone of personal control.
The goal must meet the criteria of SMART.
The goal must be environmentally friendly.
These are the basic principles
with which we work when setting a goal.
I would like to tell you
about the process of setting a goal.
I would like to tell you about the study
conducted by Edwin Locke in 1996.
This scientist published a study
that he conducted for 30 years.
A large number of people took part in it,
from children to famous scientists.
In this study, he pursued the goal
of understanding the environment
and the environment.
He wanted to understand
how people set goals for themselves
and why they are so important.
I would like to share some results
of this study with you.
In particular, he said that the more difficult
the goal a person sets for himself,
the more significant his sense of achievement is.
A person gets more confidence
when he achieves this goal.
The more specific the goal is,
the easier it is to achieve.
This is also important.
You should set your goals specifically.
The goal should be both specific and difficult.
Then it calls,
it stimulates,
and the achievement of this goal
is a real satisfaction.
Yes, I was able to do it.
Yes, it was a challenge for me,
but I achieved it.
It greatly affects self-esteem.
The goal should be important for a person.
It should be not only difficult,
but also important.
It should be achievable.
We will achieve it.
Another important point is
to get feedback.
How much have I already achieved this goal?
How good did I do it?
It is good when feedback,
when assessment comes from a person
who is really dear to you,
whose opinion you value,
who is important to you.
Of course, the achievement of any goal,
as you probably imagine,
is connected with the fact
that you feel satisfied,
confident and ready to move on.
Now I would like to move on
to the next topic,
namely, coaching at the planning stage.
Please pay attention to the next slide.
This is the William Bless system.
You are probably familiar with it.
It covers two important categories
as important and urgent.
We need to define
and arrange our priorities.
Look, here we have such factors
on one axis.
On the other axis there are factors
as important and unimportant.
On the other axis there are urgent and non-urgent.
There are things that are
important and urgent.
They need to be done urgently.
These are the burning questions
that need to be solved right now.
Along with this, there are other things
that are important enough
but not so urgent.
These are the prevention questions.
There are also things
that can be called urgent
but not so important.
Here we see such events
as meetings,
yes, they are really urgent
and they need to be done right now
but maybe they are not so important.
These are correspondence, calls.
And finally, if we look at the next slide,
these are not urgent and not important things.
These are the things
that your time will probably eat up.
that you might not have done.
These are the so-called breaks.
In accordance with this,
the resources of the organization
can be placed in priority.
The resources will be allocated
to the important tasks.
Consider this scheme more carefully.
It is worth using.
Here you need to choose
and plan for yourself
what tasks you can decide
as important and urgent,
as important and not so urgent.
Ask yourself these questions.
Plan your time.
It is a really powerful tool for planning.
It is a tool that leads
to the distribution of priorities.
And when your priorities are set,
the goal is much more achievable.
You know exactly what and why
and in what order you need to do it.
And now I would like to give you a task.
Imagine that the project
that you have just thought up,
that you are working on,
what result do you want to achieve
in one month,
in six months,
in a year,
in five years,
in ten years.
Have you thought about
what changes you need to make
in ten years to be successful
during all this time?
And if you consider your project,
try to plan it not for one day,
not for a week, but for a month.
What will be the result of your work in a month?
Write it down.
Think about it.
Think about the stages you need to go through
in order to achieve your goals
in accordance with your planning.
And if we talk about
any plan,
any task that is planned,
it should have certain characteristics.
And this plan
should be short enough.
You don't need to write plans for many, many, many sheets.
Shortness is the sister of talent.
So, the plan is short, clear,
and it lists the steps that need to be taken
on the way to the goal.
Also, here is a very important point.
If we make a plan for the whole organization,
how much do we consider the opinions of the employees?
Their resources, their occupancy,
their abilities, their capabilities.
Think about it.
And then,
does this plan correspond to the style,
to the layout of your organization?
Are you all ready
to take it as a guide to action
and to implement it for the whole team?
After all, the actions of the whole team
will bring a really effective result.
The actions of one person will not always be so effective.
Naturally, in this plan
we should specify all the necessary resources.
If we need something additional,
the plan should contain it.
If we plan the development of our organization,
increase in volume,
income,
then, accordingly, we should think about
what we need,
what resources and what funds
we need to attract now
to increase the profit.
Perhaps, what specialists should be attracted,
what information base should be obtained
to make all these changes
in accordance with the plan.
And a very important point is
to allocate the responsible people
to each of the blocks of our plan.
It's not a secret that one department
is responsible for a certain function,
another department is responsible for completely different functions.
Marketing department, sales department, personnel department
all have different functions.
If you plan changes in the company,
if they affect all these departments,
then plan the responsible people
and make sure that they are in control of these people
who are the driving force of these changes.
So, the characteristics of the plan
are really very important
and should be used actively.
The tool seems to be quite simple,
but nevertheless,
as often happens,
something simple works well.
Try to implement it.
Try to plan it
and make sure that this method works.
And now we move on to the next topic,
namely, feedback in coaching.
What is feedback?
How do we provide feedback to our employees?
After all, if you think about it,
feedback is not a criticism.
Feedback is a developing tool.
Of course, you can say,
Ivanov, you did it wrong,
Petrov, you did it wrong.
But will their actions change after that?
Will Ivanov do everything right,
and Petrov do everything perfectly?
What needs to be done
to make feedback a result of improvement?
Understanding feedback
is a two-way process,
in which both those who give it
and those who receive it are involved.
And the rules of feedback
are rules that should be observed.
So, in your feedback,
for example, for an employee,
use the following model.
First, analyze the employee's actions.
What did he do?
And how well did he do this job?
This is an analysis of his activity.
Next, what is the effect
of the work that the employee did?
And the next point is,
what can be improved here?
What can be done better next time?
What can be done better next time
to avoid possible mistakes
and to do something more effective
and more effective?
Think about it.
If you give feedback to your employee
and say,
what did you do
in your actions at the exhibition?
You were standing at the stand,
you were talking to the visitors,
you were giving out booklets.
Great! What is the effect of your activity?
Most likely, the answer is the following.
I gave out so many booklets,
I talked to so many people.
And what else?
What is the result?
What can you do better next time?
How can you show yourself in a different way
to achieve more effect?
How else can you show yourself?
If you just stand at the stand
and give out booklets,
what else can you do?
Talk to people who visit this exhibition,
maybe.
It is known that some people even sign contracts
at the exhibition.
There is no limit to perfection.
You should always think about your feedback,
what can be improved.
These are three basic blocks
of developing feedback.
As a rule, the effect of feedback
is the employee's inspiration,
what can he do differently from the critics?
If the employee is criticized,
if he is told that he did everything wrong,
does he have a desire to do something else?
Most likely, no.
If you go the other way,
if you give the employee a developing feedback,
you will notice how inspired he is.
It is really so.
The employee will be grateful to you
for your hard work,
for your opinion,
for your interest in what he can do better.
Of course, all this should happen
in a system of normal relationships,
relationships of trust and openness.
The employees also have a feeling
that they are appreciated,
that they are needed.
If the management is interested in my work,
if the management is so attentive to my work,
they appreciate me, they value me.
This is also an important factor
of the loyalty of our staff.
And the last question we ask the employee is
what can you do better?
Maybe I can help you with something.
These questions really stimulate
this employee to do something better,
to find some ways
how I can act better,
how I can show myself better.
Accordingly, the employee who has improved something
feels joy,
feels pride for himself,
for his work.
And the employee who has improved something
feels pride for himself.
Will this employee want to work with you further?
He will.
Any person wants recognition
and any person wants positive feedback.
Accordingly, feedback is a really powerful tool.
It is really worth using.
Coaching of the subordinate
Now our topic is
coaching of the subordinate.
What can we say here?
When do we need coaching of the subordinate?
We have already talked about
what type of employee needs coaching.
Most likely, it is not worth involving
the employee who has just joined our company.
The employee who needs to adapt
and get some knowledge
and skills of working in this system.
and get some knowledge and skills of working in this system.
Most likely, coaching is necessary for employees
who are already in the business,
who are ready to work.
And here we need to understand
which employee needs this support
and which does not.
Maybe there are employees who are doing great without coaching
who are already working well
and there is no need to change anything.
Look at your subordinates.
Maybe some of them need this feedback
and need coaching.
Look at your subordinates who are ready to grow
and who need this help and support
and look at their abilities
and you will be of help
not only to this person,
but to the whole company.
When one employee's potential grows
it can have an impact on the whole company's potential
because his actions lead to the success of the whole company.
Of course, if you see that the employee
is on the contrary, maybe a bit lazy
or somehow started to work worse than before
you should also pay attention to him
and ask him some coaching questions.
What's going on?
Maybe you are missing something?
Maybe you need to do something now?
Or what can I do for you?
Such employees who are a bit lazy
also need our attention
because they have such a great potential
as well as the employees who are ahead of their time.
And our task is to develop this potential in them.
And it's worth coaching these employees too.
What do we need to do?
What can you use to determine
which employee needs coaching?
The first and quite obvious measurement
is the assessment results
and assessment results,
maybe annual.
If you look at these results
you will probably understand
who should be touched
and who should really do coaching.
One of the factors is regular meetings.
You meet with your employees,
you communicate with people
and you can understand perfectly well
that one of them is active,
successful
and the other one is not very active.
If a person is not very active
it's worth paying attention to him.
Of course, one of the important functions
of a coach as a leader
is observance.
Observe your employees.
Observe what's going on with them.
Maybe something has changed.
If you notice and correct all these changes
the success of the whole company
and your personal success
will be much more natural.
Pay attention to this.
Let's look at the probability
of a positive result from coaching
for some of our subordinates.
Pay attention to how often
the behavior that requires correction
is changing.
As you have already noticed,
maybe some of your subordinates
became less effective.
Maybe some of the people
paid less attention to the important tasks
of the company.
Or maybe a salesman from the sales department
who used to be a winner
and now has bad results.
What he sells now
may not be what he is capable of.
The second axis is how deep
the cause of this behavior lies.
Pay attention to this.
If this behavior is rare
and it's just a reaction
to a particular situation
it's easy to change it
even with the help of coaching methods.
But if this behavior
is often shown
and you notice that it's a manifestation
of this person's character
it will be difficult to change it
even if it's not possible at all.
Such characteristics should be
considered by HR services
when they hire a person.
They should consider the characteristics
and behavioral functions
that this person has,
values and beliefs.
In accordance with this
coaching should be done.
For a beginner coaching manager
it's easier to work with people
who were in the first square.
The behavior that is needed
in the correction is not shown often
and it's not characteristic of this person.
It's a kind of a surge.
Then it's easy to adjust it
even for beginners.
Let's move on to the next topic.
Our topic is called
Coaching of a Manager.
The coaching of a manager
differs from the coaching of a subordinate.
Here a professional coach
and a manager are in a partnership.
Here a coach will ask
such questions to a manager.
What is the purpose of the change?
Why is it valuable and important for the company?
What results do you want to achieve?
What role does the coach play here?
It's perfectly clear that
if the goal is to increase the profit,
then within half an hour
during which the coach works with the manager
this goal will not be achieved.
The result of this change
will be a plan,
a clear goal,
clear steps to this goal,
motivation,
and the power to act.
But not the increase of the profit.
Here is a distribution of responsibility.
The coach is responsible for
building up the coaching process,
to ask the necessary questions
and get answers from the manager.
But the management takes the implementation
of this plan and strategy on itself.
And here is only the support
feedback from the coach
at a certain point.
What did you achieve now?
How do I evaluate it?
Is it good enough?
Yes, I can move on.
Or what I achieved now is not good enough?
Then maybe I should go back a little
and see what went wrong.
What happened here that
did not allow this result to manifest?
And the tasks that the managers
want to solve for themselves with coaching
could be the following.
It can be communication improvement
with the managers and employees.
It can even be presentation skills,
communication skills with people.
It is really an important point for the manager.
It can also be a request to improve
their management skills,
planning, organization and control.
It is also an important point for the manager.
After all, the manager,
while being continuously in the process
of managing the organization,
performs many functions.
And each of them he must perform efficiently.
Naturally, we support the manager in this.
We stimulate and guide them.
Naturally, the potential of a person,
the potential of a leader is needed in this recovery.
Some managers ask me
about the consideration of a mission
and vision for their company.
In one case,
a manager of a well-known company
invited us to his office
and said,
Our mission is already formed.
Do you have it already?
Yes, it is already formed.
It is in the upper drawer of my table.
What is it like?
I don't remember. I'll get it and see.
Is it a mission if a person doesn't remember it
and doesn't know how it is formulated?
It is unlikely.
What is really important,
what stimulates and moves,
just like vision,
is that a manager must have a vision
of what he is going to,
what he leads the whole organization to.
If a person has this vision,
if he already knows what result he wants to achieve,
then he can inspire and guide his subordinates.
If he doesn't know what he is moving to,
who can he inspire?
Can he do it at all?
He doesn't seem to be very inspired.
Maybe he is just here
until he finds another place.
This is also a very important point.
It is the point that determines a manager.
A vision is a manager.
Of course, employees must also take part
in its formation.
But a priori, it is a manager's function.
Coaching can be very useful here.
We talked about coaching for a manager
who conducts professional coaching.
But if we think about the fact
that there is no coaching in the company
at the moment,
there are several managers
who already have some basic knowledge
and coaching skills.
Can they conduct coaching for each other?
They can.
But there are also some points
that should be taken into account.
Coaching will be effective for two managers
only when they work
within the same organization.
When their status in the company
is approximately equal.
It should not be a general manager
and a warehouse manager.
It should be a commercial manager
or a executive manager.
These are people who are on the same hierarchy.
Again, if one of the managers
decides that he needs a coach,
he needs a person
with whom he can discuss everything,
someone he can trust,
and the same person
who has information about this organization.
Here, too, it is necessary to be guided
by the fact that the coach, the manager
and the manager who needs coaching
are different people.
If one of them is fast, active
and the other is slow and calm,
it is unlikely that they will be comfortable
conducting a coaching session.
If you need coaching as a manager,
try to find a manager
of your organization
who is about the same as you
Think about who you could trust,
who you could be sincere with,
who you could discuss the issues
that are really important to you,
who from the managers of your company
you would like to get feedback from,
how to evaluate your activities
in order to correct your actions
and be more effective later.
And, of course, if such interaction
will take place,
it is rather a sign of your success,
a sign of your development,
when you, as a person, are ready
to trust,
to work on yourself
and to share the information
that concerns you
and to be ready to receive feedback.
Even developing feedback
may not always be pleasant,
but it is important and necessary
to correct your actions
and to be more effective later.
So, today we have discussed
some blocks of coaching
in the management of changes.
I would like to briefly summarize
that coaching is really
a very strong and powerful tool
in managing changes in the company.
Those organizations that have already
introduced this method
for their team members
really get great results.
People like to work in the company
that interests them.
People work with more dedication
in the company where they are listened to,
where they are perceived
and where they get positive feedback.
As you have already understood,
coaching can be done
at the level of a subordinate manager
or a subordinate subordinate
or a manager manager.
You just need to act
based on the coaching principles
that we have discussed.
So, today we have discussed
the coaching of organizational changes.
I sincerely wish you
to use these methods
and to get great results.
After all, every company
that introduces this method
really achieves success.
You can already use this knowledge,
develop these skills in yourself
and apply them to your organization.
Thank you for your attention!